welcome everyone to this week's ipld
meeting
it's july the 27th 2020
and as every week we go over the stuff
that we've parked that we've worked on
in the past week
and any open issues we
might want to discuss or any engine
items
um i start with myself
i mostly worked on rust multihash
um and there um
so the story is that there was a huge pr
on ross martij to make it
not allocating as much and just being
stick allocated
and then there was a bit discussion
about it
and then people got
annoyed about each other so the pr was
closed but the the idea was still good
and when it was refected to something
called tiny multihash
and now and i still want to get
basically this this code kind of
upstream into the normal
rust multihash and so i work with the
creator of this pr
on it and i've made a pull request
because the code was
kind of i felt too complicated
and i couldn't really tell why but it
just
it didn't click and it was strange um
and then i took the time to
really dig into it
which also leads to some documentation i
haven't published yet but it's on my
machine about
what multi-hash libraries should do in
general
um because there's several features that
i might not be obvious
which library should support and while i
was digging into it how it works and so
on
um i finally figured out a way that i
think it's simpler
so i made this pull request
which is also linked in the notes um
which
i think is a simple approach and it's
very similar to the
to the old one but just like a bit
easier i think
and it's kind of getting completely rid
of
a code table because normally on the
upstream last month we have a code table
which is then
assigns the hashes to a certain code and
now it's kind of like the other way
around
and then you assign with rust magic
the code the code of a multihedge to
a header and then magically everything
works
and it's this code generated and i think
things are more obvious
um anyway it's quite complicated still
but if anyone wants to check it out
feel free um and to leave
comments about it there isn't any
documentation in there yet so it's
probably still hard to follow
but this will be in yeah upcoming
commits and hopefully
it will be solid enough to then be moved
upstream
um yes that's all i have and of course
next week i will probably also work on
those
things um
next on my list is eric
so i did a lot of docs again
and a bit more research on advanced data
layouts
some of which showed up in the doc's
stuff in the docs repo
um and some of it is together with the
rod i've been looking a little bit at
hands in the wild as they appear
in some of the file coin stuff and the
lotus code bases and
things in that area um and just trying
to extract some understanding of like
what in practice those folks are doing
with these structures already and
like just gain information about user
stories from that
which has been really interesting it
turns out they're
doing a lot of stuff that's really
i don't know if simple is exactly the
word but they're solving a lot of
problems in very direct ways that we
probably might have discounted if we
didn't
see people solving real problems that
way so
yeah that's been interesting i did a
little bit more work
on the golang kogen stuff there's some
pr's that are
boring bug fixes don't look at it but
there's also another pr that is maybe
fun to look at which is
i cleaned up the generation of the
schema schema enough that that is
actually a commit
that you can look at and that will
probably be
headed to master sometime soon because
it appears to work now
there are some slight drifts between
the schema that's described there in
those
functions and the schema schema doc
that's in the spec
um a couple of those are to do use for
me in the code gen
um a couple of them will turn into pr's
in the
specs regardless sometime soon so you
can get a preview of those by looking at
that code if you want otherwise
you can just move it around and show up
in a spectrum
so that's about it
okay sorry i had i i
clicked i wanted to get zoom into the
foreground
and then it told me oh you can't
minimize
zoom but this window was hidden behind
the original window
so i couldn't unmute myself because the
you can't minimize window was somehow
in the front but i consider anyway so
yeah
next on my list is uh
yes uh my update is going to be super
short i actually didn't get the chance
to work on anything i built evaluated
last week
i am essentially working on my falcon
tester certification
air quotes uh we basically are working
on various
ways and uh designs suppose how to test
and how
uh to use uh falcon with demo drop down
the line
uh and this involves a ton of meetings
and clarifications and stuff like that
the only thing i guess is somewhat ipod
related
uh i tried overlooking to implement my
own
campy calculator uh because
the thing is including lotus is super
it's based on rastafari and it is super
resource intensive so i just wanted to
select
how hard can be and
looking over the stuff that rod
wrote way back in javascript i actually
ran into inconsistencies not only with
small files but with mesh with
any uh car file of a specific
size uh that is very close to the to the
limit or piece so
now i'm actually downloading a couple of
uh car files that
kinda match the description to see if
our companies are incorrectly calculated
and uh if i do find files like this we
can figure out like
who is incorrect whether it's lotus now
or what was before
but yeah that's potential i have
thank you um next
is chris
hey guys um so uh
last week i been working on a little
more refactoring of dumbo drop to unify
the configuration right now
it's it's kind of like there's some
stuff in the environment variables some
stuff in command line
arguments and i think something else
so i'm going to clean that up and also
worked on uh making it more
deterministic um processing
so right now it's not deterministic
which i mean it works but i think it'd
be better i think we could make some
changes to
deterministic which would enable some of
the things so a bit of work there
um work on some kind of application
developer oriented documentation so just
thinking through
typical developer if they're going to
ipo ipldfy their
app how can they do that um
and so i have like some interesting kind
of starting work on
like configuration um you know
something you would put in a dot file or
something
logging like how would you log to ipld
how would you manage standing data
input files output files it's actually
pretty cool but the
one problem though is i keep thinking
through it i keep like discovering new
stuff and i can't get in this like spin
lock
where i write a page and then like
rewrite it because i wanted
i think a better way of like presenting
it so it i'm not happy i'm not
comfortable with committing it yet but
um
you know that's been i've been
frustrated that the other thing i've had
some
higher all distractions so some stuff's
going on that i took away my time last
week
um i also got a chance to start playing
around with dagde
um because you know talking to michael
one of the things
i want to do is take dumbo drop which is
a typical
application design where you have you
know configuration logging and all this
kind of stuff
that drive it that's in traditional
files and see if we can move all that
like hundred percent into ipld and dag
db is kind of one of the key pieces we
need to make that possible because
uh you have to build like have you have
to name your objects otherwise you're
writing those names out to a file and so
kind of the goal here
is all configuration all the input files
all the logs everything is in a
an ipld and we use dagdb quite
extensively
um and so kind of like uh i i personally
think that is like
a key missing piece to make to really
make ipl the easier to use in a complete
sense
like for a lot of standard things
applications do so i'm pretty excited
about it
um and so anyway that's that's my update
thank you um next is rord
it is um okay
uh spent a
chunk of time uh in the far coin hampton
um which is in the ipfs.org
and its name is gohampt ipld um there
was discussion about moving it to
the file coins falcoid project org
and um and so i've opened up an issue
there to formalize that and it looks
like there's some agreement around that
the one of the reasons that's relevant
to this team is that it's
it's place it's you know it's in the
ipfs.org for
historical reasons but its name as well
um and also we link to it in our hashmap
spec
it is confusing that it sounds like a
generic
hand that somebody could use for ipld
and it is
it's not bad or anything it's just being
driven by a file coin
basically what far coin wants and needs
goes into that thing
and everything else is secondary
it's layout slightly different and also
this question of
um of context that keeps on coming up um
how do you
when you load this thing uh how do you
know what parameters it's using to be
able to read through the structure
um and the this one takes the approach
of it's always
comes from the code where you're loading
it so you will know
when you load this thing what the
parameters were that created it
and you don't need to find them anywhere
in the data itself
whereas in hashmap spec and um
elsewhere we've taken the approach that
these things
are a little bit more generic and
self-describing that when you load them
it would be helpful to know how they
were created because
without that information you can't read
them
and you may not have that information
when you load it
so that's that's a big divergence with
this one and it's not going to change
with filecoin because filecoin's got
this very strong opinion about
versioning and
where that information comes from and
also the importance of bytes
so that's lacking from this one and um
it'd be good not to give the impression
that this is a generic workhorse that
people could rely on
um and as eric's been saying we're not
too far off having a new go one um
that users can just pull off the shelf
and use
so that'll be moved hopefully there's a
pull request number 52 there that's
just just chop chop block full of um
uh documentation just i've gone through
the code documented it
added some um surrounding documentation
um found a bunch of to-do's in there for
things that need testing some a couple
of things that look like bugs
um and it's
um spent some really interesting
conversations with eric
um about this stuff uh another thing i
did was
have a good chat with the folks over at
vulcanizeddb
these guys are doing um they are
combining ipld and cryptocurrency
blockchains
and postgres to do
query and verification
work so ipld comes in handy because it
helps to
proof stuff because these blockchains
contain these verbal trees that
you can do proofs on and so sticking all
that in postgres is interesting from
that perspective but it's also a good
way to
hold the data and format it so that's
interesting
uh it turns out they've got a ton of
overlap with the work i've been doing on
blockchains
i've been doing bitcoin and zcash
they've
put that aside even though they have
some support for it they're we're just
like
not it's not complete yet but they've
been doing ethereum work and i haven't
done
all the ethereum work yet and it's
turning out to be a nightmare
and um they've taken some older
theory of ipld work implemented
re-implemented it all or upgraded it to
be
actually work fully with current
ethereum
data they've even implemented their own
um
format for representing ethereum state
which is kind of complicated so they
have a fork of the main ethereum client
that they're doing to use to extract
state information
and um yeah really interesting
conversation and i think
uh for the ethereum archiving work
i'm doing i need to lean on what they're
doing um whether that's
um trying to get them to participate
or um just using their work and then
also as we've talked about
um either up streaming or um
extracting their ipld work because right
now it's
it's embedded deep in a uh a repo that
does all this
work but it would be nice to get those
things out as codecs
and we even talked about doing those
codecs for ipld prime
so um yeah ethereum's the main one there
but they've also
done some work on bitcoin and something
else
um so yeah there's
there's good collaboration space there
that i wanted to shoot
um i did i spent some time in seabor
again just
tinkering at edges i was grabbing i was
running the one of the main
test suites that the sibo spec ships
just to make sure that i i'm on track
and
i'm at this point where i am deciding
whether or not to bother with
the indefinite length support which is
this thing where
any any item that has a length so an
array or a string or a byte string
or a map they there's two modes
we just say what the length is up front
or you say
the length is indefinite and wait till i
give you a break
uh and that's good for streaming but
it's not good for dax ebook
because it means there's variation in
the in the layout that you can have for
any given set of data
um and so so for taxi board i don't want
that i want to be able to turn that off
but
to be able to use
test fixtures to make sure i'm
compatible with everything it's sort of
nice to have that coverage in there
so i've already got evolving in there
this idea of
strictness and flags to turn features on
and off
um and this is going to have to be one
of them if i if i fully implement them
where for dag sequal we could say no you
you can neither write like that nor can
you read data like that and get away
with
um so i mean that's one of many
it's really this is really educational
in terms of um
the format the ideal ipld format
and um and how seaboard is not it in its
state
and even the way we've been making dagsy
ball more strict
is probably not it either uh
maybe because we see problems with that
with like the rust implementation
um when using surname it's
there's a number of ways that it doesn't
it's not ideal
for our strictness spec and uh even
the falcoin sibor
uh encoder it's doing it's not doing any
strictness checking at all because
they're
they're making performance and like a
their
top priority so it'll read sloppy data
which could be a problem for their
blockchain that's a different issue
um but it'll also it currently just it
doesn't sort the keys properly in maps
so it won't even write data recording to
add to xc or spec so
this is this is why seabor is not a
great solution to ipld but
maybe there's some sort of evolution we
can do with z-war where it's like
um not only strictness but just features
just get cut out
and you can't go anywhere near these
features to
be valid but i was thinking about it i
was imagining a um
instead of dark sea ball it's like dark
sea wall street make an entirely new
multi codec
codec that was just super strict and you
couldn't you had to
do all this stuff to implement that and
you had to cut out features
and you have to validate on read all
sorts of stuff to be a direct
or strict and maybe that could represent
our next
evolution of data format um instead of
going fully our own
but actually carve out a very strict
space in cbore
where to call it dioxible strip you have
to
do this stuff in and out sorry peter
oh i was just going to say it we already
say in the spec for like c war we
already do
say that indefinitely not allowed that
shortest integers need to be used so
we are kind of already strict but yeah
if you're saying
it counts yes yes it's a problem now
spec is strict but the
but nothing is strict enough out there
none of them are doing
all this stuff and we have this float
problem as well
that is live and we have real data being
produced with taxi but like when
when file coin goes live and it's
producing dag cbo blocks that will live
forever
and if the sorting stays the way it is
they will not be valid according to the
spec
um how how do we deal with live data
that we can't change and we've got this
spec that says one thing and then we
start switching on our
uh dax siebel codex to be more strict
for reading data
how does that work that's that's crazy
land so it's like
okay you're reading file coin data
therefore turn off your strictness
checks
that's sort of i mean of all places
where you want to be strict you want to
be doing
anything to do with you know
cryptocurrencies
that's the strictness is kind of
important there
so anyway we just have another coin
be done with it well that
i i did actually wonder whether that
would be the case but but um
the the cbo code encoder is pretty good
and it
actually it it doesn't implement much
either um
uh it doesn't i don't think it inputs
floats at all
um and it implements just enough which
is ideal
it's just this strictness thing that
concerns me because there's nothing to
stop
other far corn clients from producing um
like integers encoding every integer as
a 64-bit
um it will still read them even though
they shouldn't be according to the
strictness rules
and but that's also the same with all of
our other symbol codecs as well
they will all read bad data and say yeah
that's fine i don't care
um nothing will reject it and say hey
this is not right this shouldn't have
been coded like this
this this hash is wrong for this set of
data
uh anyway and then last thing was um
continuing on these ramblings there's a
pull request in the space record
two eight three four the uh noting some
of this javascript number craziness
because that's another area where we run
into trouble and we will run into
trouble with every
codec which is the javascript number
layout um i was going to go into some
detail as well
just about in in in general about typed
versus untyped and the problem with
numbers there anyway
but javascript is a very specific way of
talking about that and we don't really
have
i think we have any other untyped
implementations of dax equal maybe
maybe there is out there but um anyway
oh good that's me
thanks and next is michael
yeah hey yeah sorry commenting on github
um okay uh did some stuff um
uh oh yeah that's right uh uh everybody
needs to apologize to me
for last week uh thinking that i was not
going to figure this out and get
everything building
for all the different stuff with esm so
anyway you're welcome uh that all works
there's a tool called limbo that we can
use to manage those builds now that's
all awesome
um that got me thinking about that
problem in general because it is like
it's a lot of builds to manage like this
is just a lot of extra stuff to manage
so i started thinking about that
and i started building this thing called
ipjs which is like
basically a build system to handle this
actual problem that we have
but also sort of internally can use a
data structure that's an ipld
and can have a native package format so
in addition to making things that can be
easily published at npm like we need
right now
that are unified um that are universal
javascript
we also have like a future open to us
where we can like do really cool stuff
with all the new esm and all these data
structures so
um i wrote a bunch of code and did a
demo of
that and sent it around um that's pretty
cool
um and then there was i wrote a bunch of
other code in other places i think i
fixed a bunch of bugs in
in block and in multi-formats and dag db
all over and i wrote some docs um but
yeah that's that's me
um i don't know who's next
that might be it is that it yeah
okay so
any items to discuss
no i put some agenda items actually
all right somehow i could
okay yeah sorry yeah i see them now okay
um
yeah so yeah talk yes just i i hand over
to you i think that's that's easier sure
yeah
so um one of the things i've been
thinking about you know
so example like but from an application
development point of view
uh a lot of times text data gets
compressed with gzip or whatever and
once you move to ipld
um you know yeah you could g-zip
something and stick it in as a raw block
or you could hope that there's a block
store that
will automatically compress stuff but as
you know some blocks
may be more compressible than others so
you don't you have a run to a problem
where if you don't have any kind of hint
you don't know if you should try to
compress it without wasting time and so
i don't know i'm sure you guys talked
about compression before but it based on
my thinking it seems like having
uh you know a dag seaboard gzip codec
would make sense or something like that
so essentially
um the data is compressed but
you can actually follow links uh you
have to decompress it first in the codec
but you can do it you know pretty memory
and cpu efficiently with something like
gzip it's pretty fast um and that will
allow you to get
uh and you know then the developer would
get to choose okay i know this is going
to be a highly compressible
data structure so it'll use that but if
it's not let's say you have
bite arrays or something embedded in
your c board that
has compressed chunks or something then
you can just use typical dag c boards
you're not gonna get the benefit so
what what have you guys talked about as
far as echoes
uh before we before we're going to the
answer i have a question uh
this comes up quite often uh this very
this very question
uh in your thinking chris
what are you solving by introducing this
codec so what i'm solving
is um i guess
a more efficient compression for things
that are highly compressible so
when you when you think about an
application developer
that wants to move as much if not
everything
into ipld one things they're going to
quickly
you know a stumbling block's going to be
well now i'm using a ton more
data storage than i was before um
because it can't compress and uh so i
think
you know allowing the developer to have
some control over the data that's
compressed
and still maintain ipld linkability
which is i think is
you know the part that you lose if you
just take
data compress and throw into a roblox i
think is the prop i'm trying to solve
uh michael you admitted do you want to
answer that or
sorry i i missed it i'm still commenting
on this dumb thing
okay well uh sorry there's a there's a
codec
no i i i thought you wanted to go that's
why i'm asking
so peter actually just thought through a
bunch of this stuff
recently and text in some other channels
so maybe he'll be super ready to answer
it but the one
the the counter force that's always
incredibly strong is
if you do a hash over the compression
is just very likely to produce enormous
amounts of sadness downstream because
you can never vary the compression again
and refresh it with the ideal
compression algorithm is approximately
zero right like it's just not
people will get in arguments about the
ideal compression for some piece of data
until
the end of actual time
create new codec in that case so there's
a compelling reason i think gzip is so
popular that
and then all of your links break and all
of your detailed breaks
yeah links
yeah so
i'll say a couple things because yeah i
do have several threads about this that
are in different places so they're not
easily discoverable but um
one is that like it is just kind of an
obvious easy win
for um storage abstractions and network
abstractions to implement compression so
like
if you have a store and you're worried
about like size limitations and you're
willing to trade compute for
for storage bytes implement compression
right and then you can press
everything regardless of the codec so
that's like where you want to get that
win
and where you're in the best position
decide whether or not you want to make
that trade-off
um transports should all just implement
a basic compression because we have
optimized like libraries for transport
compression like there's no reason that
it's not other than people are lazy
um which is the case right now
um that doesn't that doesn't mean that
i'm not
that that i'm opposed to any form of
compression in a codec
um i'm just opposed to taking general
compression solutions
and then taking a codec and then making
and taking a serialization library
like a format and then pairing them
together for a new codec
um because it one it creates like a
multitude of codecs for every
compression
and then none of the data that gets
created across them is duplicatable
um and we don't have like unified
addresses for them but if you imagine
like a new
block format like if we were writing a
new block format we would probably
have some form of like application
specific
compression in there right like we would
we would be able to say like oh there's
like you know if a cid appears
hundreds of times in the same block
there's no reason to write it hundreds
of times in the same block right like we
could write it once and then we can
maintain references to it and we can
like create a really optimized like
block format right
um and you can see this across some
other um format libraries
where you like if you look at like the
the http header compression
in hp 2 um and i think it's also in http
3. it's very specific to headers right
like it's
it it understands the problem space
enough that it can create like a really
efficient application specific solution
so we may find that in the future we may
have a block format that just like oh it
compresses a little bit on its own
because we know
what what block formats tend to do
but there's really no need to use
generic compressions because
we're not in the best position as codec
authors to understand when somebody
wants to trade
the compute of a generic compression
library for the storage requirements
and vice versa but but the developer
picks which codec to use
so you know if they often know if it's
compressible or not so they could
have the option to say you know this is
highly compressible data
i'm willing to pay that trade-off no no
but but they're going to then
put that data into the network and
they're going to send it to other people
and you just made that decision for all
the other people
right whereas like the developer also
picks their block store
and if they want to turn on compression
in their box store they get all this
compression
for all of their storage um and and
they've been able to make that trade-off
in isolation for themselves and not for
the data that
then goes out of the network
it was a similar something something
that's not not the same
but it's the same class of of uh
of question came up just
yesterday i think it was um with this
hemp so
in the hamp spec that we've got on the
for hashmap if we say that that murmur 3
particular type the 64-bit version of
murmur 3.
uh now the x64 version of it in mm3 is
the
algorithm to use for it which is great
because you know that's a
that's not a cryptographic um hash it's
just a good hashing function for generic
use
and then filecoin is now discussing in
fact they've just merged
that they're going to switch that to a
cryptographically secure hash so that
they
avoid the problems associated with hash
collisions that where people could
actually
manipulate the knowledge of number three
to force hash collisions
great it turns out that for uh
so jeremy did some testing with that and
it turns out that
shah 256 is faster
on the average machine than murder 3 is
um because computers are optimized for
it
um and so you've got this case where
you as a developer you think you're
making decisions that that extend
through the whole stack but other people
at the different levels of the stack are
also making decisions which are
optimizing in different ways and in this
case you've got operating system
and hardware vendors that are optimizing
for shop256
and we as developers think oh no we'll
get a simpler hash but no it's actually
not that efficient
so it's the same kind of thing with with
compression where different layers of
the stack
and different people involved in those
layers are making decisions already
and sometimes it might be best to defer
those decisions to those parts of the
stock i'm not saying no to your
suggestion i'm just saying that it's
it's complicated in the way that mike
was talking about
[Music]
and and frankly like i i think that the
place where we're most likely to
see a win from this kind of compression
is probably not actually in
like dag seabor and and like you know uh
natively encoded block structures but
just in raw bites
so i wouldn't be curious to have a
conversation about like what would raw
jesus
codec look like like that's probably a
bigger and more obvious win
than any other than like compressing
seaport right like
most most people are if you really look
at their data store it's mostly raw
blocks if they have like a ton of data
this is certainly true across like all
the data
processes well
um so i think one thing we do have to
have an
answer for is if there is a developer
that
feels that their solution
um requires compression otherwise it's
like ipld is a non-starter form we need
some guidance about how to do that
so um you know
do we have i think saying well it's i
mean
i've touched my head there's two
strategies you can do it one is you can
extend the block interface to have a
hint that says
this block is compressible you should
try to compress a block store because
what we don't want to do is have a box
store try to
auto magically figure out if a block is
compressible or not because that can be
extremely expensive a waste of cpu time
especially when the developer can
provide a hint kind of like uh you know
content negotiation in a browser it's
like hey
this is what i want and you should give
it to me if you have it that way but i
can also support these
um it's the same type of idea you don't
want to like have the server have to
you know guess wrong i mean we would if
we did a raw
gzip that would solve it for that or you
would say you would look at it and say
hey i don't need to compress that
i will say that like um i don't know
where the threat is about this but we we
talked about this and talked about just
like
having um our stores defaults to having
compression on
and there were actually objections that
people had to defaulting to it to on
because they mostly had video data or
they mostly had other data that was
already compressed and they didn't want
to waste that time right
so like like again like i think that um
the best place that we probably have to
offer it is
in the storage instruction right now um
and i
think at the moment our team doesn't
manage those storage abstractions
they're mostly on the ipfs side
um so yeah it's not it's not quite
for us to handle yet unfortunately um
we i mean i i think we should
since i feel these kind of like
independent of ipfs you should be able
to build an ipld application and not
have any ipfs
pieces at all right
well that is great great
yeah i mean like like like uh i have a
block
abstraction in tag db right and
it does not currently have compression
and like i would be interested to see
what it
would look like to add compression as a
feature there um
you could actually like you know
abstract it pretty substantially
there's a discussion i'll link you to it
um there's a discussion in
jsiphs lite about where that api should
go
and some of the stuff that they should
handle and and that includes they're
really thinking about what the block
store abstraction looks like because
rockaway's been doing work
on um putting the block store in a
worker
so that you can share it more easily um
and this is why like a lot of that those
cid changes came in like as the ends
that we could
share across the worker boundary really
easily um but yeah like uh
we should get on the list of you know
thoughts and potential features um
compression in there as well so the
the other way you can do it so if you
had a block straight api that had an
optional hint
like an optional thing you pass in that
could have a hint like that then that's
one way the other way
i don't want you guys to think about
this but you could actually have
in the application side multiple block
stores so one
that you know doesn't compress another
one that does you could choose to save
the cid to this one
versus that one and then aggregate up
between multiple block storage you have
to do lookup right so
if you don't know which block storage
and you just check all of them until you
find it
is have you guys thought about design
pattern that's kind of like a nest
question too i mean what kind
what do you guys think about multiple
block stores that could that aren't
unified kind of like the way ipfs
is i like to think of them not as
kind of in parallel but more layered on
top of each other because like i usually
put an lru on top of the block store
anyway
so there's already kind of a layering
that goes on where like every every
actual storage system gets wrapped in
like a memory cache
layer um so that's how i kind of think
about it like you stack them on top of
each other
and this is also why i very firmly think
that like
our block store abstraction should
continue to work with cids and not
break down to the multi-hash layer
because we can actually use the cid as a
hint right
i mean you can see when you configure it
for storage you can say like hey like
compress these
codecs but not these codecs because we
don't know if those compress well or we
know that they don't and things like
that um whereas you lose that level of
granularity about the data
if you if you're only thinking about it
from the point of view multihash
um
oh sorry um i think in ipod prime we
have
a thing that should allow that multiple
log stores id or
something like it the link context
parameter
allows you to peek at some of the
immediate context around the link that
you're about to do something with
so you can go look for other info over
there that hints like
if you have schemas you can look at what
type this is or you can look at some
sibling fields to get some hints about
how you want to store things i think it
could be used for that
it wasn't entirely the original
intention but it should fit
it would be interesting to try i like
the idea
in part of the scheme would be awesome
actually
well like like i said from an
application developer point i think we
need to have a pretty solid answer about
how they can
accomplish it um so i don't think we
have to
hash it out today but i know it'll be a
barrier
especially i mean maybe some of the
initial
use cases for ipfs has to do with data
that's not
very compressible like uh you know
movies or
i don't know whatever it is files that
are already gzipped
already compressed but um when i think
about using it
like dag db i mean you you could
probably imagine use cases where
i bet that data is highly compressible
dagdo is probably very compressible
and if you have a very very large you
know database
and we know today like a lot of
databases do compress data because they
get a lot of benefits out of it
and there's problems when you're
sticking
not compressible data in a database that
is compressing
you know it's not good so anyway or they
probably won't compress something like
uh you know binary deals leave it as
is but anyway i think we should you know
maybe we can revise that later on but
um one one thing i think relates to that
it
i it seems like i i'm confused michael
why ipfs owns
the box store api when ipld is
should not be dependent upon ipfs it
seems like we should define the ipld
block store api
the ipfs implements uh
ipld should be completely independent
from a block store
like i build it should exist without a
block store in the first place
so let's let's like unwind this a little
bit
so i ipld is like a set of
specifications
for data serialization and so like there
are implementations that like don't even
think about storage and do
you know half of the stuff that our
stack does so like when we talk about
our stack and then i feel the in general
like we need to keep in mind that there
are people that implement only tiny
parts of this
um and we need to stay compatible with
them and that that's like a
it's like a good thing that those exist
it's not like they're not like competing
um so in our stacks
we do have several block abstractions
um and most of the time those block
abstractions correspond
to storage layers somewhere they're just
usually not owned
by ipld because iplb tries really hard
to maintain
um an agnostic relationship to the
storage and network layer
like that that's what it really is like
we we don't want to have an opinion
about how you store the data
um that doesn't mean that we're not
going to hand you an abstraction that
you can very easily store
or that we might not even work on some
libraries that make that easier in the
future we totally can
we can totally make some block
abstractions that do this and put them
out as libraries there's nothing
stopping us from that
it's really just as a project and at
like the specification level
we shouldn't be binding or assuming any
particular type of storage abstraction
or any particular type of network
abstraction
do we have a resolver abstraction
because i think you can't really do
linking unless you
can resolve links and that requires
accessing block stores
yeah so in javascript that is a single
function
that takes a cid and returns
a block so across the whole across a lot
of the js deck that's that's what it
uses
um eric has a much more sophisticated
system
no eric's just loaded as well like it's
it's like
yeah it still can't matter but this this
has come up before though chris because
we still need this for things like uh
shared test pictures and
like i wanna i keep on bumping into it
when i wanna like test the library and
have a
uh a place where i can pull blocks from
um
and just a just a generic way of
communicating about how these things are
stored car files are a great example so
with the car file stuff and i did zip
car as well
i built the interfaces around that
around the same
block storage interfaces that ipfs uses
and they're really clunky
uh for just doing block storage so
uh it makes me want something much
cleaner to say this is an ipld
block store this is how we interact with
it and there have been some good
discussions about the kinds of features
we want from that
and it would be good to have something
specked out one day but it certainly
wouldn't be
an integral part of the stack it would
just be something that we have and use
because it's
useful yeah oh i should clarify a little
bit
everything that we've done so far sort
of in the iqb stacks
are very intentionally agnostic about
this this doesn't mean that we won't
take on some work that will make this
better
if you look at dagdb there's a storage
abstraction that's much more
sophisticated than this that actually
maintains
an index of links and things like that
and you can look in
in the thread in jso3 lite where i'm
talking about some of that and like
this may need to wake it make its way
into ipfs light in ipfs because without
sort of the link indexing over the graph
you can't do very efficient uh garbage
collections and operations
and i have an entire replication system
that's quite nice uh integrity that
really relies on
having those links as well so in order
to look through a tree and figure out
what data that i have what data that i
need i don't have to actually
retrieve and parse every block like
that's really expensive
in large graphs with a lot of the
duplication which is what you end up
with
yeah yeah i want to add oh go ahead i
actually want to add some some thoughts
on that
yeah so uh a few things um
going back to something you said a
developer working with that doesn't want
to have
this stuff take a whole bunch of space
you are implicitly thinking about the
storage portion of this rescue of the
block store you're not talking about
ipld plus you
yourself said that you will have to do
the decompression on the fly to
basically thread the links and stuff
like that
so that's one thing where you're kind of
veering
off into the implementation detail
without actually
needing ipld to have comparison
compression being problematic with an
ipod that's number one
number two a lot of the space saving
in many contexts actually comes from
stripping compression
like that's part of what has delayed
dagger so long is
that i need to write
a genetic decompressor that is
transparent
and spits out decompressed objects that
are representative of compressed stuff
from before so take for example
um dab packages start gc files
uh the the zim wikipedia dumps
all of them do not often contain in
vast repositories contain pretty much
the same data
which will never duplicate because it is
so compressed
if you decompress it you will end up
with
a repository that contains all of this
already unwrapped for you
at a fraction of the size of what it
takes to
host the compressed version of the data
that's super important
that's point number two point number
three uh
in order for you to have a codec that is
uh verifiable
uh just like what rad was talking about
with the
with the sibo implementation you need to
have a super
standardized and
with parameters frozen compression
algorithm
you would think the gz being there you
know forever
uh is a well-known format and everything
can produce the same gzip stream
from the same input that's absolutely
wrong
to the point where i actually have a
chain uh
of correspondence with uh cloudsports
the person who writes
this standard gzip within within go
between versions of the same library
the output changes with the same
parameters and i basically
got into a correspondence with him like
okay is there actually something that
you guarantee that you will not touch
for me that i can actually rely on
and the answer is no with the same
parameters i cannot guarantee you that
the
actual text actual compressed result at
the end will be
the same going forward so it's super
important to keep in mind that you
basically
if you do a codec you will have to have
a full complete specification
of what the compression implementation
of this codec is
otherwise nobody will be able to verify
your uh
your blocks down the road or you'll have
to like
you know have the entire uh algorithm
wasn't when everybody just plugs it in
they get the same the same stuff out
which is which which is the same thing
you simply look at the specification
it's called
and uh the last point i want to make
about this
is that um
compressing if we're talking about
compression algorithms which are useful
for transport
they are generally tuned and this
includes gzip and then
and includes broadly
and and whatever else supported by the
by the browsers these days they're
pretty optimized
to not spend too much time when they
feel that they cannot compress something
essentially putting
everything to this pipe is for all trans
purposes
free it is
not only free in general it is
definitely free compared to the amount
of signaling
and extra matter that you have to carry
around to your stack to
differentiate compress this part but
don't compress this part
so those are all pieces that you can
need to put together in order for a
codec like this to
come you know together it's not
insurmountable but it's
way more involved than it looks on the
surface
so that's kind of my thoughts about that
i think in general the answer to this
right now is
documentation because i think there will
be a lot of developers showing up saying
i want my stuff compressed and for us to
patronize and just wave it off and say
oh that's just
somewhere else i think it's wrong um
it's not going to be it's a satisfactory
answer but if we can do some education
here about
those exactly those subtleties um peter
then that would be really good so
something i should just say i just don't
reason yeah
we need to have something that explains
the position and says look
we first of all you know you should
question whether you really want at this
layer because
it a it can be done at these other
layers and b it may already be done
at these other layers and you don't even
realize it um and then
talk about the difficulties of these
decisions talk about the fact that you
could do it you could do it today if
you're doing if you are doing something
that
has raw bites and you want to compress
it just g-zip it before you encode it in
raw and
if that and then discuss the problems
with convergence with that particular
problem but maybe for things like video
data
it doesn't matter because it's there's
too much craziness going on there anyway
so
there's a lot we could document here
okay
and i guess one more point actually on
speed going forward
uh something that rad brought up and for
the purpose of the recording
uh the reason shuttle 56 is more
efficient than warmer hash is because
all developers working on falcon have
these
specific name cpus that actually have an
entire instruction
just to calculate shuttle 56 and nothing
else okay
which by the way goes back to the power
of standardization there is no future
in which you will ever see blake 2 or
blake 3s part of the cpu
because they're nothing tips so
it is plausible that some compression
algorithm
which is less efficient
will find its way in five years into
some cpu
and then also all your um
specific thinking about this is now
encoding a cache that you can never
change
so it's not well we spent a lot of time
on this but i think
i agree with rod that as application
developers come on we do need
uh to give them direction and so maybe
one thing we can do is uh
next week if you guys have noodle on it
and think like well
what would our you know what is our
unified
you know messaging as opposed to don't
do it and how do you do it
um i think that would be good maybe we
can pick it up then if that's cool
yeah this comes up frequently enough
that we really do need to deal with it
i use it all the time but um i guess
just real quick on the other one we
don't have a catalog of
design patterns or best practices for
ipld
like stuff right now do we anywhere
which stack new go old go new javascript
old javascript new new javascript rust
they're all so different i i think it's
actually kind of language independent
it's kind of like if you're going to
uh like for example like to get maximum
deduplication you don't want to put
anything like
time stamps in an object you want to
probably put it up at a higher level and
link to it i mean
there's got to be things like that you
guys have thought about that you're like
oh this is the
that way don't use floats um yeah well
and
so schemas gets part of the way towards
that a lot of the thinking in schemas
and even the documentation
points towards some of these best
practices schemes actually encode best
practices in a lot of ways
um so yeah you'd be good to have a
more high level discussion of that but i
think if you read the schemas docs
you'd already be in a good position to
think about
design decisions
all right we are slowly running out of
time um
is there anything else anything quick
i want to say i try to take live notes
of as much of that as possible
in the bottom of the their document so
hopefully that's a
gold mine for that documentation i think
we all agree we need to write
oh thank you
um this makes you the official
notetaker for this meeting
um
okay so yeah i guess um that's all for
this week so
um see you all in next week
goodbye everyone